# BDiff / BPatch Change Log

## v0.2.8 - 2016-09-19

_BDiff_ v0.2.8 (build 9) & _BPatch_ v0.2.8 (build 9)

* Converted to support Unicode file names and use of Unicode strings internally.
* Switched to Delphi XE compiler from Delphi 7.
* Added a new test to the test script.
* Significant overhaul and updates to documentation.

## v0.2.7 - 2014-07-19

_BDiff_ v0.2.7 (build 8) & _BPatch_ v0.2.7 (build 8)

* Bug fixes in _BDiff_:
  * "New" and "old" file names for a diff cannot now be the same.
  * Patch file name specified in `--output` or `-o` switches must now have a different name from other file names specified on command line.
* Major refactoring:
  * Big change from procedural to modularised, mainly OOP code split into several units.
  * Pascalified code in terms of variable names, camel casing etc.
  * Revised logic of some methods.
  * Reduced usage of some pointers, including replacing character pointers with Pascal strings.
* Revised and reformatted documentation: license and read-me files converted to  Markdown format.
* Minor changes to the license.

## v0.2.6a - 2009-08-06

_BDiff_ v0.2.6 (build 7) & _BPatch_ v0.2.6 (build 7)

* Removed source code from distribution.
* Documentation updated re changes.
* No changes to executable code other than to update build numbers.

## v0.2.6 - 2009-08-02

_BDiff_ v0.2.6 (build 6) & _BPatch_ v0.2.6 (build 6)

* Changed to use sytem temporary folder for temporary files instead of current directory.
* Typo in _BDiff_ help screen fixed.
* Some refactoring:
  * Code rationalised to have only one exit point in each application rather than multiple halt points. Achieved this by raising exceptions for fatal errors instead of calling _Halt()_.
  * Some duplicated code pulled into units shared between _BDiff_ and _BPatch_.
  * Ensured code that depends on single byte characters uses fixed size types instead of _Char_, which changes size in later compilers.
* Replaced build scripts with make files.
* Tests rewritten and extended:
  * Three different tests are now provided in place of one: all three patch formats are now tested.
  * Option added to display program version information.
  * Option added to clear temporary files generated by running the tests.
  * Location of _BDiff_ and _BPatch_ programs being tested can now be specified.
* Documentation overhauled.

## v0.2.5 - 2008-08-14

_BDiff_ v0.2.5 (build 5) & _BPatch_ v0.2.5 (build 5)

> Skipped _BDiff_ v0.2.4

* Renamed _BPtch_ back to _BPatch_.
* Added manifests to resources of both _BPatch_ and _BDiff_ to inform Windows Vista to run them as invoked. This prevents Vista from elevating _BPatch_ because of the word "patch" in its name.

## v0.2.4 - 2008-04-07

_BDiff_ v0.2.3 (build 4) & _BPtch_ v0.2.4 (build 4)

* Renamed _BPatch_ as _BPtch_ to prevent Windows Vista from flagging the program as requiring elevation.
* Also altered _BPtch_'s version information to remove the word "patch" for same reason!
* _BDiff_ was not changed except for incrementing build number.

## v0.2.3 - 2007-09-18

_BDiff_ v0.2.3 (build 3) & _BPatch_ v0.2.3 (build 3)

> Skipped _BPatch_ v0.2.2

* Fixed bug where _BPatch_ could not overwrite existing files.
* Fixed small bug in `-h` and `-v` switches in both programs.
* Fixed memory leaks in _BDiff_.
* Switched to Delphi 7 compiler from Delphi 4.
* Prevented compiler warnings in both programs.
* Added batch files to build projects.
* Updated help screens.
* Made some minor refactorings.
* Removed conditional compilation for non-Windows targets.
* Added test batch file a sample files.
* Changed to new binary and source license.

## v0.2.2(pas) - 2003-12-21

_BDiff_ v0.2.2 (build 2) & _BPatch_ v0.2.1 (build 2)

* Fixed bug in _BDiff_ by translating revised C code provided by Stefan Reuther. _BDiff_ is affected by the change while _BPatch_ remains unchanged.

## v0.2.1(pas) - 2003-11-29

_BDiff_ v0.2.1 (build 1) & _BPatch_ v0.2.1 (build 1)

* First Pascal version. This is a direct translation of v0.2 of Stefan Reuther's C code published in 1999.
